# 🇱🇰 Manifesto Monitoring

This repository contains utility libraries and tools for tracking, analyzing, and visualizing the implementation of the [2024 NPP manifesto](https://www.npp.lk/up/policies/en/npppolicystatement.pdf) — now the **de facto policy framework** of the 🇱🇰 Sri Lankan Government (2025).

🔍 Use this repo to:

- Track progress on key promises
- Analyze policy implementation
- Build visual dashboards and reports

🛠️ Built for researchers, developers, journalists, and citizens who want **accountability and transparency** in governance.

📢 Share. Fork. Contribute.

🇱🇰 #SriLanka #OpenGovernment

NPP Manifesto Source: [https://www.npp.lk/up/policies/en/npppolicystatement.pdf](https://www.npp.lk/up/policies/en/npppolicystatement.pdf)

## Comparison of NPP Manifesto Promises and Cabinet Decisions

Manifesto | Cabinet Decision | Similarity
--- | --- | ---
**State University System**:  Abolition of non-academic staff recruitment on the recommendations of the minister in charge. `1.01.A12.12` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.50
**State University System**:  Establish special units in every tertiary education institution to provide basic qualifications, including English language skills, required for obtaining post- graduate education in international universities and fostering relationships that will allow students to secure post-graduate opportunities through these units `1.01.A12.17` | **Entering into Memoranda of Understanding between Sri Lankan Universities and Foreign Universities**:  `2025-01-27-003` | ⚪ 0.51
**State University System**:  Increasing Mahapola and other bursaries in line with cost of living. `1.01.A12.21` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.50
**Distance Education**:  While recognizing that open and distance education is a crucial part of tertiary education, providing opportunities for those unable to complete tertiary education due to different circumstances and those engaged in various professions to complete their tertiary education is essential. Open and distance education will be expanded to ensure access to higher education without barriers based on employment status or geographical factors. To achieve this, the facilities of the Open University of Sri Lanka will be expanded. `1.01.A17.01` | **Entering into Memoranda of Understanding between Sri Lankan Universities and Foreign Universities**:  `2025-01-27-003` | ⚪ 0.55
**Effective Health Service Management**:  Gradually increase government expenditure on health to at least 3% of the GDP within a short period. `1.02.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.56
**Provision of essential Drugs**:  Expand local pharmaceutical production. `1.02.A12.02` | **Procurement of Essential Medical Supplies from the State Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation and Local Manufactures**:  `2024-12-02-003` | ⚪ 0.53
**Provision of essential Drugs**:  Eliminate corruption and fraud during the import and distribution of medicines. `1.02.A12.03` | **Procurement of Essential Medical Supplies from the State Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation and Local Manufactures**:  `2024-12-02-003` | ⚪ 0.53
**Provision of essential Drugs**:  Ensure the continuous supply of all essential medicines to public health institutions. `1.02.A12.04` | **Procurement of Essential Medical Supplies from the State Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation and Local Manufactures**:  `2024-12-02-003` | ⚪ 0.53
**Provision of essential Drugs**:  Ensure the quality and fair pricing of medicines. `1.02.A12.05` | **Procurement of Essential Medical Supplies from the State Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation and Local Manufactures**:  `2024-12-02-003` | ⚪ 0.51
**Provision of essential Drugs**:  Prevent drug shortages by maintaining adequate stock levels. `1.02.A12.06` | **Procurement of Essential Medical Supplies from the State Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation and Local Manufactures**:  `2024-12-02-003` | ⚪ 0.51
**Urba n Housing**:  Promoting investments from Sri Lankans living abroad in affordable housing projects in urban areas. `1.03.A02.02` | **Project to construct permanent houses for families displaced by conflict in the Northern and Eastern Provinces**:  `2025-06-02-012` | ⚪ 0.51
**Urba n Housing**:  Facilitating the provision of affordable housing for residents of low-income settlements in Colombo through government intervention. `1.03.A02.04` | **Project to construct permanent houses for families displaced by conflict in the Northern and Eastern Provinces**:  `2025-06-02-012` | ⚪ 0.54
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing a National Sports Commission mandated to develop a national policy ensuring standards and equity in sports. `1.04.A01.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Accelerating the implementation of the draft Constitution for Sri Lanka Cricket. `1.04.A01.03` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Developing a strategic investment plan to support and upgrade sports and recreational facilities nationwide, ensuring proper regulation. `1.04.A01.20` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing a National Sports Regulatory Authority. `1.04.A01.27` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Developing sports as an industry through a coordinated approach between the state and private sector. `1.04.A01.30` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing a ‘National Fund’ for literature, cinema, drama, and other arts, supported continuously by both the government and the private sector. `1.05.A01.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Film and Tele Drama**:  Reforming the National Film Corporation and establishing a National Film Institute. `1.05.A03.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Wetlands**:  Identification and documentation of wetlands in Sri Lanka and taking necessary steps for their conservation. `1.07.A08.01` | **Resolution to be submitted to the Conference of Parties of the International Convention on Wetlands (Ramsar) by Sri Lanka**:  `2024-12-09-005` | ⚪ 0.57
**Wetlands**:  Ensure conservation of existing and future Ramsar wetlands and enhance tourist attractions of them. Restoration of degraded wetlands through multi-stakeholder engagement and community participation. `1.07.A08.02` | **Resolution to be submitted to the Conference of Parties of the International Convention on Wetlands (Ramsar) by Sri Lanka**:  `2024-12-09-005` | ⚪ 0.51
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Updating legal frameworks and improving infrastructure for waste management in residential, agricultural, industrial and service sectors, based on zero waste 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) principles and circular economic concept `1.07.A11.01` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.57
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Preparation and Implementation of a National Solid Waste Management Action plan, reviewing the current solid waste management plans and related policies `1.07.A11.02` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.57
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Make it mandatory to adopt a waste management programs for residential, high- rise, service, and industrial buildings/ sector developments `1.07.A11.03` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.58
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Reducing plastic and polythene use through extended producer responsibility schemes `1.07.A11.04` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.54
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Proper management and safe disposal of hazardous and electronic waste `1.07.A11.05` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.51
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Developing infrastructure for adopting modern final waste disposal methods like sanitary landfills, waste-to-energy and resource recovery facilities `1.07.A11.06` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.53
**Sustainable Solid Waste Management**:  Promote industries to adopt the zero-waste method and locate every industry within the industrial zones whenever possible. `1.07.A11.07` | **Fulfilling the responsibility of Local Authorities in creating a circular economy by streamlining their solid waste management activities**:  `2024-12-23-006` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Amending the 2024 No. 09 Online Safety Act by removing restrictions on freedom of expression. `1.08.A01.02` | **Amendment to the Online Safety Act No.9 of 2024**:  `2025-05-26-020` | ⚪ 0.54
**Social protection and Welfare Programmes Prajashakthi: Poverty alleviation programme for low-income earners**:  Providing a minimum monthly financial grant from Rs. 10,000 upwards to low- income families `2.01.A01.01` | **Implementation of the “Praja Shakthi” programme as an Integrated programme including multiple approaches to alleviate poverty**:  `2025-02-24-007` | ⚪ 0.66
**Social protection and Welfare Programmes Prajashakthi: Poverty alleviation programme for low-income earners**:  Introduction of a participatory, transparent and efficient beneficiary selection process `2.01.A01.02` | **Implementation of the “Praja Shakthi” programme as an Integrated programme including multiple approaches to alleviate poverty**:  `2025-02-24-007` | ⚪ 0.70
**Social protection and Welfare Programmes Prajashakthi: Poverty alleviation programme for low-income earners**:  Introducing a digital platform for identifying eligible beneficiaries using new criteria within a year and providing financial assistance to all qualifying individuals. `2.01.A01.03` | **Implementation of the “Praja Shakthi” programme as an Integrated programme including multiple approaches to alleviate poverty**:  `2025-02-24-007` | ⚪ 0.67
**Empowerment**:  Under the key poverty alleviation programme, the NPP government will undertake the following ess ential tasks. `2.01.A02.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.59
**Empowerment**:  A comprehensive participatory study on the causes of poverty and family dynamics in low-income households. `2.01.A02.02` | **Implementation of the “Praja Shakthi” programme as an Integrated programme including multiple approaches to alleviate poverty**:  `2025-02-24-007` | ⚪ 0.52
**Empowerment**:  Identification, analysis and developing remedies for poverty and vulnerabilities at the household level through community-based projects. `2.01.A02.03` | **Implementation of the “Praja Shakthi” programme as an Integrated programme including multiple approaches to alleviate poverty**:  `2025-02-24-007` | ⚪ 0.52
**Empowerment**:  Facilitating the implementation of these projects through public-private partnerships and the involvement of the cooperative sector. `2.01.A02.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Empowerment**:  Establishment of training, technical assistance and financial assistance for low- income families to initiate income generation and livelihood projects `2.01.A02.05` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Empowerment**:  Efficient use of the Samurdhi Banking system and staff to empower poor families. `2.01.A02.06` | **Implementation of the “Praja Shakthi” programme as an Integrated programme including multiple approaches to alleviate poverty**:  `2025-02-24-007` | ⚪ 0.50
**A healthy and happy retirement for senior c itizens**:  Providin g a monthly allowance of Rs. 5,000 to senior citizens needing assistance. `2.01.A03.01` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.54
**A healthy and happy retirement for senior c itizens**:  Establishment of new elderly care centers at the divisional secretariat level. `2.01.A03.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**A healthy and happy retirement for senior c itizens**:  An interest rate that is 5% higher than the normal bank rate(s) for senior citizens’ fixed deposits. A Meaningful and Satisfactory Life for Persons with Disabilities `2.01.A03.07` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.52
**A healthy and happy retirement for senior c itizens**:  Establishment of a comprehensive data-base, developed by experts, on persons with disabilities `2.01.A03.08` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.53
**A healthy and happy retirement for senior c itizens**:  Provision of a monthly financial aid of Rs. 10,000 to persons with disabilities in low-income families. `2.01.A03.09` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.58
**A healthy and happy retirement for senior c itizens**:  Facilitating education, training, employment, and livelihoods opportunities for persons with disabilities. `2.01.A03.10` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Social protection for women-headed families, single parent families and women affected by Gender-based/intimate partner violence.**:  Financial assistance for affected individuals (of the above categories) based on needs and income levels. `2.01.A04.01` | **Introduction of amendments to the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Scheme**:  `2024-12-02-011` | ⚪ 0.53
**Social protection for women-headed families, single parent families and women affected by Gender-based/intimate partner violence.**:  Legal aid and counseling services are offered based on needs and requests. `2.01.A04.02` | **Administration of temporary shelters for providing protection for female victims of violence**:  `2025-02-19-005` | ⚪ 0.55
**Social protection for women-headed families, single parent families and women affected by Gender-based/intimate partner violence.**:  Provision of alternative housing and job support when needed. `2.01.A04.03` | **Administration of temporary shelters for providing protection for female victims of violence**:  `2025-02-19-005` | ⚪ 0.56
**Social protection for women-headed families, single parent families and women affected by Gender-based/intimate partner violence.**:  Establishment of mechanisms for social and psychological support for women affected by violence an d abuse. `2.01.A04.04` | **Administration of temporary shelters for providing protection for female victims of violence**:  `2025-02-19-005` | ⚪ 0.56
**Health: Social Protection for Persons with Chronic Illnesses**:  Creating a digital data repository of individuals with chronic illnesses such as cancer and kidney disease. `2.01.A05.01` | **The Project for Strengthening Surveillance of Cancer through Population Based Cancer Registry (PBCR) Programme in selected districts**:  `2025-03-03-003` | ⚪ 0.51
**Health: Social Protection for Persons with Chronic Illnesses**:  A minimum monthly financial grant of Rs. 10,000 to persons with chronic illnesses on a needs basis. `2.01.A05.02` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.58
**Health: Social Protection for Persons with Chronic Illnesses**:  Professiona l support and social empowerment. `2.01.A05.03` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.51
**Nourishing Future Generations: Reducing Malnutrition**:  Educating parents about measures to combat malnutrition. `2.01.A06.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Nourishing Future Generations: Reducing Malnutrition**:  Provision of financial assistance through field officers for obtaining nutritious food for families with urgent needs. `2.01.A06.03` | **Provision of an allowance for School- Age Children to purchase stationery**:  `2024-12-02-013` | ⚪ 0.53
**Nutritional Program for Pregnant Women**:  Provision of financial support for nutritious food packages during pregnancy and the first year of childbirth for low-income families. `2.01.A07.02` | **Programme for providing morning meal to children in Early Childhood Development Centres/Pre-schools**:  `2024-12-18-008` | ⚪ 0.54
**Nutritional Program for Pregnant Women**:  Continuous awareness and monitoring by family health officers. `2.01.A07.03` | **Programme for providing morning meal to children in Early Childhood Development Centres/Pre-schools**:  `2024-12-18-008` | ⚪ 0.50
**Safety: Adequate Care for Children**:  Establishment of Childcare Centers at the Gramaniladari level with public and private partnerships based on needs and requests. `2.01.A08.01` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.57
**Safety: Adequate Care for Children**:  Registration of existing institutions with adequate qualifications for childcare. `2.01.A08.02` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.54
**Safety: Adequate Care for Children**:  Training of staff for the effective management of Childcare Centers and monitoring their performance. `2.01.A08.03` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.54
**Safety: Adequate Care for Children**:  Appointment of social service/development officers to provide professional services and provision of incentives for small and medium scale entrepreneurs to provide such services. `2.01.A08.04` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.53
**Pension Scheme for all citizens**:  Development and implementation of a broad pension policy applicable to all workers in the country. `2.01.A09.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.56
**Pension Scheme for all citizens**:  Establishing a government-certified pension fund under the supervision of the Department of Pensions and the Central Bank. `2.01.A09.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.56
**Pension Scheme for all citizens**:  Motivating all citizens, who are currently not employed in the Government or Corporate sector such as farmers and fishermen and others to join the pension scheme. `2.01.A09.03` | **Providing relief to pensioners, paddy farmers and fishermen**:  `2024-10-14-014` | ⚪ 0.54
**Pension Scheme for all citizens**:  Using the pension fund as an insurance scheme during emergencies/disability. `2.01.A09.04` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Formulation and implementation of a labor policy. `2.02.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.54
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishment of a national salary structure that minimizes wage disparities and motivates employees. `2.02.A01.05` | **Revision of Salaries of the Public Service - 2025**:  `2025-03-24-011` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Recruitment, promotions, and transfers in the public sector based on qualifications and skills without political interference. `2.02.A01.13` | **Reviewing the Recruitment Process and Cadre Management in the Public Service**:  `2024-12-30-013` | ⚪ 0.54
**NO-TITLE**:  A maximum of one year of leave with 25% of the basic salary for those taking care of children under the age of 5 or those taking care of sick parents over the age of `2.02.A01.16` | **Revision of the sub-section 8:5, Chapter XII, Volume I of the Establishments Code**:  `2025-02-03-012` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Amendment of the PAYE tax `2.02.A01.19` | **Amendments to the Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017**:  `2025-05-19-007` | ⚪ 0.54
**Unemployed graduates:**:  Graduates who have been unemployed for a long period will be employed as follows. Thereafter, a mechanism will be developed to create new job opportunities for graduates as the economy expands. `2.02.A02.01` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.56
**Unemployed graduates:**:  20,000 to the teaching profession. `2.02.A02.02` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.55
**Unemployed graduates:**:  3,000 STEM graduates and 9,000 non-STEM graduates to the information technology sector. `2.02.A02.03` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.53
**Unemployed graduates:**:  Another 3,000 to the Inland Revenue Department, Customs Department, Foreign Service, and tourism industry. `2.02.A02.04` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.61
**NO-TITLE**:  Revising existing labor laws and introduce new regulations to address specific challenges faced by working women and ensure job security. `2.03.A01.03` | **Appointment of a committee to review the drafted Employment Bill**:  `2025-06-02-014` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  R eviewing, amending, or repealing outdated laws such as the Children and Young Persons Ordinance, Adoption of Children Ordinance, Vagrants Ordinance, and Orphanages Ordinance. `2.04.A01.01` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing specialized high courts dedicated solely to handling cases involving children `2.04.A01.02` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.60
**NO-TITLE**:  Setting up a more efficient mechanism for collecting child victims’ testimonies and improving the current investigative process to minimize their re-victimization. `2.04.A01.03` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.59
**NO-TITLE**:  Direct children accused of minor offenses to intervention and community-based rehabilitation programs instead of the court system. `2.04.A01.04` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Providing family-based care and support to identify at-risk children and prevent unnecessary separation from their families. `2.04.A01.05` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Implementing a child-friendly transportation system to ensure safe and dignified transportation of children for legal purposes. `2.04.A01.06` | **Implementation of the "Take Care - Surekemu Magathota" Project**:  `2025-05-19-004` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Streamlining coordination between the National Child Protection Authority and agencies such as Probation and Child Protection Services and capacity building of those agencies. `2.04.A01.07` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.64
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing an efficient and responsive service for reporting child abuse incidents and ensuring proper follow-up. `2.04.A01.08` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.63
**NO-TITLE**:  Increasing budgetary allocation to critical areas, including education, health, social services and other essential child welfare sectors with a special focus on marginalised and vulnerable groups. `2.04.A01.09` | **Provision of an allowance for School- Age Children to purchase stationery**:  `2024-12-02-013` | ⚪ 0.57
**NO-TITLE**:  Train field officers related to child affairs in Divisional Secretariats and direct them to provide direct services to families whose children are at risk. `2.04.A01.11` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Establish a robust mechanism for early identification and intervention of at-risk children, including children with disabilities, street children and out-of-school children. `2.04.A01.12` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.58
**NO-TITLE**:  Educational reforms in line with international standards aimed at fostering life skills and knowledge in a child-friendly educational environment. `2.04.A01.13` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.50
**NO-TITLE**:  Broad reforms to the foster care system to ensure that every child in need of alternative care receives care and stability in family-based environments. `2.04.A01.14` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.50
**A Flourishing Youth**:  Review the current competitive examination system for government employments and update the selection process. `2.05.A01.03` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.52
**Future of the Leadership**:  Restructuring National Youth Services Council and related institutions such as National Youth Corpse, Youth Clubs to develop knowledgeable, skilled young leaders. `2.05.A06.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Implement a social protection scheme for those employed in the private and informal sectors, including farmers and fishermen. `2.06.A01.05` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.50
**Education**:  Facilitate the inclusion of sign language-trained teachers in schools. `2.07.A02.04` | **Sign Language Bill**:  `2025-06-02-018` | ⚪ 0.55
**Education**:  Provide facilities for sign language interpreters in public and private institutions. `2.07.A02.05` | **Sign Language Bill**:  `2025-06-02-018` | ⚪ 0.56
**Education**:  Establish special education and child development resource centers in every educational zone. `2.07.A02.06` | **Provision of an allowance for School- Age Children to purchase stationery**:  `2024-12-02-013` | ⚪ 0.50
**Education**:  Ensure communication and IT facilities in primary and secondary schools for students with disabilities. `2.07.A02.07` | **Provision of an allowance for School- Age Children to purchase stationery**:  `2024-12-02-013` | ⚪ 0.51
**Economic Independence**:  Enforce the allocation of 3% of jobs in public and private sectors for the disabled community, and gradually increase this quota to 5%. `2.07.A03.01` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.50
**Public Services and Community Support**:  Improve accessibility to online services for persons with disabilities. `2.07.A06.04` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.50
**Public Services and Community Support**:  Offer tax exemptions to import assistive devices used by persons with disabilities. `2.07.A06.06` | **Revising the Aswesuma Welfare Benefits Payment Scheme**:  `2025-03-17-003` | ⚪ 0.50
**Public Services and Community Support**:  Recognize sign language as the language of communication for persons with hearing impairments. `2.07.A06.07` | **Sign Language Bill**:  `2025-06-02-018` | ⚪ 0.60
**Public Services and Community Support**:  Create inclusive theaters and sports facilities to enhance the artistic and cultural participation of persons with disabilities.   A modern life A wealthy nation `2.07.A06.08` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Establish a new dedicated unit for designing and implementing tax policies with a special section on international transactions. `3.01.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Make required legal reforms to enhance efficiency in tax administration. `3.01.A01.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Provide training and capacity development for the officials of the Inland Revenue Department. `3.01.A01.03` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Integrate the operations of the Excise Department, Sri Lanka Customs, Department of Motor Traffic, and Land Registry Office with the Inland Revenue Department to ensure tax efficiency and fairness. `3.01.A01.05` | **Establishment of the Revenue Administration Reform and Modernization Bureau**:  `2025-05-26-021` | ⚪ 0.61
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Increase the annual tax threshold for individual income tax from Rs. 1.2 million to Rs. 2.4 million and revise the tax rates and tax brackets on a fair basis. `3.01.A01.07` | **Amendments to the Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017**:  `2025-05-19-007` | ⚪ 0.53
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Broaden the tax base in line with tax principles. `3.01.A01.08` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Introduce a 0% V AT rate for essential food items including locally produced milk & eggs, infant milk, drugs, schoolbooks, stationeries & equipment, magazines & journals, library services, agricultural equipment, fertilizer, solar panels & accessories, machinery for renewable energy generation, motor vehicle and equipment used by a disabled person, locally manufactured software and IT related services, and computers, research and development services, computers `3.01.A01.11` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Expedite providing Export Development Tax rebate on Input V AT for exporters. `3.01.A01.13` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Establish a single window service by integrating other state institutions with Sri Lanka Customs to streamline import/export operations. `3.01.A01.16` | **Establishment of the Revenue Administration Reform and Modernization Bureau**:  `2025-05-26-021` | ⚪ 0.59
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Amend the Foreign Exchange Act to reconcile remittance inflows and improve operational efficiency. `3.01.A01.18` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Decentralize Sri Lanka Customs operations to provide more efficient and cost- effective services. `3.01.A01.19` | **Establishment of the Revenue Administration Reform and Modernization Bureau**:  `2025-05-26-021` | ⚪ 0.55
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Facilitate temporary import facilities for raw materials and machinery under the TIEP scheme to assist Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in export preparation. `3.01.A01.20` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Macroeconomic Stabilization Fiscal Policy:**:  Improve public finance efficiency, transparency, governance and accountability, and eliminate unnecessary public expenditure through digital-based governance including e-procurement and a strong public oversight mechanism. `3.01.A01.23` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Monetary Policy:**:  Establish a new national development bank to provide long-term financing, start new businesses, and expand existing businesses for entrepreneurs. `3.01.A02.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Monetary Policy:**:  Encourage microfinance providers to register with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and standardize the monitoring of such institutions. `3.01.A02.05` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.54
**Monetary Policy:**:  Strengthen the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka through formalization of the coordination among state institutions. `3.01.A02.08` | **Establishment of the Revenue Administration Reform and Modernization Bureau**:  `2025-05-26-021` | ⚪ 0.54
**External Sector Stabilization:**:  Introduce new savings and investment plans, including expatriate Bonds for Sri Lankans living abroad. `3.01.A03.01` | **Implementation of the Restructuring of International Sovereign Bonds to restore Sovereign Debt Sustainability**:  `2024-11-25-008` | ⚪ 0.56
**External Sector Stabilization:**:  Issue new development bonds to finance regional development projects which with sustainable development goals. `3.01.A03.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**External Sector Stabilization:**:  Expedite proposed and currently stalled Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) that are aligned with national priorities and development strategies. `3.01.A03.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.56
**External Sector Stabilization:**:  Execute an expedited program to increase foreign exchange earnings from tourism and IT industries. `3.01.A03.06` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**The Programme with the International Monetary Fund (IMF):**:  Prepare and present new proposals on efficient tax administration and government expenditure management to renegotiate the revenue-based fiscal consolidation proposals of the IMF. `3.01.A04.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Investment Promotion**:  Establish a single empowered institution by integrating existing state institutions including the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka that coordinate and promote investments. `3.01.A05.01` | **Proposed Agreement on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates**:  `2025-02-09-002` | ⚪ 0.57
**Investment Promotion**:  Introduce a legal framework to ensure transparency and fairness in line with internationally accepted principles and practices for accepting and retaining investment. `3.01.A05.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Investment Promotion**:  Create a conducive environment with economic democracy that ensures ease of entering into new businesses and finding locations on a level playing field, the ability to access utilities conveniently, the availability of required competent labour, efficient financial services, ability to enter into international trade, fair and transparent taxation, efficient conflict resolution & arbitration mechanism, and market competition. `3.01.A05.03` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Investment Promotion**:  Establish a single window to facilitate business registration, issuance of licenses, certifications, granting of permission for land use, and provision of electricity, water, communication services and other facilities through an integrated system. `3.01.A05.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Investment Promotion**:  Take measures to raise Sri Lanka’s ranking in the Global Competitive Index (GCI) to attract investors. `3.01.A05.05` | **Proposed Agreement on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates**:  `2025-02-09-002` | ⚪ 0.52
**Investment Promotion**:  Restructure the state institutional system to maintain the capital market efficient & productive, build investor confidence and prevent inside trading and corruption. `3.01.A05.07` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Investment Promotion**:  Promote long-term foreign investments in public-private-people partnerships (PPPP) by prioritizing strategically important sectors. `3.01.A05.08` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Investment Promotion**:  Introduce investment schemes with special benefits for Sri Lankan expatriates to invest their earnings. `3.01.A05.09` | **Proposed Agreement on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates**:  `2025-02-09-002` | ⚪ 0.56
**Investment Promotion**:  Enhance labour and production relations through collective efforts that empower employees via collaboration and cooperation, increase productivity, and assign responsibilities democratically to each party. `3.01.A05.13` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Investment Promotion**:  Set up a mechanism to resolve conflicts and issues in production relations through stakeholder engagement. `3.01.A05.14` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs):**:  Take appropriate strategic decisions on each institution based on its strategic importance, potential for economic growth, capability to stimulate the production economy, impact on financial stability, and relevance to national security. `3.01.A06.01` | **Review on State-Owned Non-commercial Entities**:  `2024-12-18-002` | ⚪ 0.51
**State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs):**:  Promote research and development activities to explore new opportunities in economic trends, potentials, and developments prevailing at the national and international levels. `3.01.A06.03` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Foreign Trade**:  Amend the import policy by considering the importance of the protection of local production, assurance of food security, ease of accessing raw materials for production, priority for essential goods and investment goods and competitive access to imports. `3.01.A08.10` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Foreign Trade**:  Promote and provide necessary facilities for value-added re-exports and entrepot trading activities without damaging the brand identity and the good image of Sri Lanka. `3.01.A08.12` | **Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the the Viet Nam Trade Promotion Agency and the Sri Lanka Export Development Board**:  `2025-04-28-011` | ⚪ 0.52
**National food security**:  State support for the local production of all possible food items within the country. `3.02.A01.01` | **Establishment of the Food Policy and Security Committee**:  `2024-12-09-001` | ⚪ 0.50
**National food security**:  Establishing storage, cold storage, and processing units for agricultural products as public-private-people partnership projects. `3.02.A01.06` | **Establishment of the Food Policy and Security Committee**:  `2024-12-09-001` | ⚪ 0.56
**Strong Agricultural Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Markets:**:  Financial support to establish 50,000 agricultural entrepreneurs within five years. `3.02.A03.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Empowering Farmers**:  Initiation of value-added manufacturing industries related to the export of agricultural crops to branded export products. `3.02.A07.03` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Empowering Farmers**:  Financial facilities to encourage the use of rain guards for rubber plantations and to identify rubber lands not currently used for tapping and redirect them for rubber tapping. `3.02.A07.04` | **Providing underutilized lands/properties to suitable investors for optimal use**:  `2025-06-02-006` | ⚪ 0.50
**Empowering Farmers**:  Providing loan schemes up to Rs. 1 million per hectare for cultivating high- yielding varieties of semi perennial or perennial crops with micro-irrigation. `3.02.A07.05` | **Implementation of the Pledge Loan Scheme carried out previously for the purchase of paddy, as an Annual Programme from the Maha Season - 2024/25**:  `2024-12-30-005` | ⚪ 0.54
**Management of Climate Risks:**:  Establishment of an improved weather forecasting system to guide cultivation and water management. `3.02.A08.02` | **Integrated Rurban Development and Climate Resilience Project**:  `2025-02-03-002` | ⚪ 0.51
**Effective Management and Control of Agricultural Operations**:  Establishing a national agricultural development council with representatives from all relevant state institutions, private sectors, and universities `3.02.A10.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Dairy Sector**:  Developing a large-scale dairy farm system to promote milk production. `3.03.A02.02` | **Project for organizing and empowering dairy farmers to enhance 	their productivity and improve the Dairy Value Chain**:  `2025-05-26-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Dairy Sector**:  Establishing 7,500 dairy farms to empower low-income women. `3.03.A02.03` | **Project for organizing and empowering dairy farmers to enhance 	their productivity and improve the Dairy Value Chain**:  `2025-05-26-009` | ⚪ 0.56
**Dairy Sector**:  Establishing 7,500 dairy farms to strengthen youth entrepreneurship. `3.03.A02.04` | **Project for organizing and empowering dairy farmers to enhance 	their productivity and improve the Dairy Value Chain**:  `2025-05-26-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Dairy Sector**:  Doubling the current artificial insemination rates and increasing the number of dairy cattle through advanced technologies `3.03.A02.05` | **Project for organizing and empowering dairy farmers to enhance 	their productivity and improve the Dairy Value Chain**:  `2025-05-26-009` | ⚪ 0.51
**Dairy Sector**:  Improving efficiency of farm systems through regional veterinary divisions. `3.03.A02.06` | **Project for organizing and empowering dairy farmers to enhance 	their productivity and improve the Dairy Value Chain**:  `2025-05-26-009` | ⚪ 0.51
**Dairy Sector**:  Implementing successful vaccination programs to eradicate major epidemics. `3.03.A02.07` | **Project for organizing and empowering dairy farmers to enhance 	their productivity and improve the Dairy Value Chain**:  `2025-05-26-009` | ⚪ 0.51
**Sustainable development and management**:  Amend the laws & regulations, and processes that hinder the industry, in accordance with international conventions, agreements, and standards. `3.04.A01.04` | **Repealing the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act No.2 of 1996**:  `2024-12-23-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Seawater fisheries**:  Provide a fuel subsidy to the fishing community in order to uplift the collapsed fisheries by reducing the production cost. `3.04.A02.05` | **Programme for the revival of the fishery sector by mitigating the impact caused to the fishery industry due to the economic crisis**:  `2024-10-14-012` | ⚪ 0.56
**Development of marine and brackish water fish products**:  Increase the annual production of prawns above 25,000 tons by providing required facilities including technology. `3.04.A03.04` | **Development of the Myliddy Fishery Harbour - Phase III**:  `2025-06-02-011` | ⚪ 0.54
**Social Welfare for the Fishing Community**:  Re-activate the Fisherfolk pension scheme. `3.04.A06.03` | **Programme for the revival of the fishery sector by mitigating the impact caused to the fishery industry due to the economic crisis**:  `2024-10-14-012` | ⚪ 0.53
**Social Welfare for the Fishing Community**:  Implement programs to enhance the financial literacy of fisherfolk and aquaculture producers, for elevating them to a professional level. `3.04.A06.08` | **Programme for the revival of the fishery sector by mitigating the impact caused to the fishery industry due to the economic crisis**:  `2024-10-14-012` | ⚪ 0.51
**Uplifting export potential and earning foreign exchange**:  Promote exports and promoting the market by collaborating with relevant institutes, including Sri Lanka Export Development Board and Embassies. `3.04.A09.02` | **Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the the Viet Nam Trade Promotion Agency and the Sri Lanka Export Development Board**:  `2025-04-28-011` | ⚪ 0.56
**Uplifting export potential and earning foreign exchange**:  Promote foreign investors to invest in production sectors with high export potential. `3.04.A09.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Uplifting financial income surrounding fisheries harbours and developing fisheries harbours**:  Upgrade all major fisheries harbours to meet international standards based on a prioritization plan. `3.04.A10.03` | **Development of the Myliddy Fishery Harbour - Phase III**:  `2025-06-02-011` | ⚪ 0.54
**Uplifting financial income surrounding fisheries harbours and developing fisheries harbours**:  Expand ports and enhancing facilities in the Northern and Eastern provinces to promote trawler fisheries targeting residents. `3.04.A10.04` | **Development of the Myliddy Fishery Harbour - Phase III**:  `2025-06-02-011` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Launch a global marketing campaign to position Sri Lanka as a hub for high- value ICT products and solutions. `3.05.A01.01` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Leverage Sri Lankan foreign missions to actively promote the ICT industry to international clients, with specific targets for each mission. `3.05.A01.03` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Establish a fund for new ventures, research, and development to encourage local innovation and entrepreneurship in the ICT sector. `3.05.A01.04` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.50
**NO-TITLE**:  Offer tax reliefs, grants, and other incentives to make Sri Lanka an attractive destination for ICT investments and professional opportunities. `3.05.A01.10` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.56
**NO-TITLE**:  Build partnerships with global ICT companies and research institutions to bring advanced technologies and best practices to Sri Lanka. `3.05.A01.12` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.57
**Agriculture, fisheries, livesto ck, and food security**:  Enhancing crop resilience to climate change, improving the sustainability and economic potential of main crops, optimizing food preservation for greater economic benefits, and creating value-added products. `3.06.A01.02` | **Integrated Rurban Development and Climate Resilience Project**:  `2025-02-03-002` | ⚪ 0.50
**Environment, land, water, air, and mineral resources**:  Strengthening research and development to characterise Sri Lanka’s biodiversity ‘hot spots’ that need protection. This includes catchment and vegetation mapping and categorizing habitats based on Land use threats. `3.06.A04.02` | **Providing underutilized lands/properties to suitable investors for optimal use**:  `2025-06-02-006` | ⚪ 0.51
**Human development, arts, history, culture and ancient heritage studies**:  Increasing the capacity and accessibility of the National Archive by use of modern technologies such as Block Chain, Cloud and AI to establish an efficient archival system and public record management. `3.06.A05.07` | **Grant awarded from the International Council on Archives to the National	Archives**:  `2024-10-14-003` | ⚪ 0.51
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Establishing the National Tourism Council (NTC) as the main institution responsible for coordinating and managing tourism-related activities. `3.07.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Establishing the Tourism Policy Formulation Council (TPFC) for developing policies for the industry. `3.07.A01.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.57
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Establishing the Sri Lanka Tourism Authority as the central institution for tourism development and promotion. `3.07.A01.03` | **Establishment of the Gambling Regulatory Authority**:  `2025-02-24-010` | ⚪ 0.57
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Implementing a new tourism act to enhance the productivity and efficiency of the tourism sector as a leading industry in the Sri Lankan economy. `3.07.A01.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.56
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Attracting airlines and establishing connectivity from major tourism-origin countries to Sri Lanka. `3.07.A01.07` | **Promoting tourism and passenger transportation activities using 	waterways under Public-Private Partnership**:  `2025-04-21-001` | ⚪ 0.53
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Introducing domestic airline services to key tourist destinations within Sri Lanka. `3.07.A01.08` | **Promoting tourism and passenger transportation activities using 	waterways under Public-Private Partnership**:  `2025-04-21-001` | ⚪ 0.55
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Implementing an international-level standardization program to enhance the quality of all sectors in the tourism services. `3.07.A01.10` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Providing necessary facilities to convert informal sector tourism operators into the formal sector. `3.07.A01.11` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Visionary leadership, strategic management, and holistic economic development**:  Developing infrastructure facilities needed to advance the local tourism industry as a leading and alternative tourism mechanism and encouraging private sector participation in this task. `3.07.A01.12` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Sustainable usage of natural and cultural resources**:  A land bank, including a mechanism for land use in the tourism sector, with the involvement of relevant stakeholders and the state, aimed at future tourism investments. Digital technology should be utilized for this purpose. `3.07.A02.02` | **Providing underutilized lands/properties to suitable investors for optimal use**:  `2025-06-02-006` | ⚪ 0.54
**Developing human resources for the tourist industry**:  Training programs for Sri Lankans to meet both local and international demand for a skilled workforce in the tourism industry. `3.07.A03.03` | **“Marine Nights :Awakening Colombo” Project**:  `2025-05-26-004` | ⚪ 0.52
**Development and standardizing of new tourist products**:  Establish a special department/team to develop innovative tourism products for Sri Lanka’s tourism industry. `3.07.A04.02` | **“Marine Nights :Awakening Colombo” Project**:  `2025-05-26-004` | ⚪ 0.55
**Development and standardizing of new tourist products**:  Promote Sri Lanka as a destination for MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions) and sports tourism. `3.07.A04.04` | **“Marine Nights :Awakening Colombo” Project**:  `2025-05-26-004` | ⚪ 0.53
**Development and standardizing of new tourist products**:  Engage with the private sector to facilitate and provide the necessary infrastructure development to attract cruise tourism. `3.07.A04.05` | **Promoting tourism and passenger transportation activities using 	waterways under Public-Private Partnership**:  `2025-04-21-001` | ⚪ 0.51
**Strategic destination marketing**:  In collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the national airline, and state tourism institutions, a long-term global marketing campaign to promote Sri Lanka’s tourism industry will be established. `3.07.A05.02` | **Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between China Media Group (CMG) and Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau**:  `2025-01-06-013` | ⚪ 0.56
**Strategic destination marketing**:  A program will be developed to position Sri Lanka as an authentic, eco-friendly, and tourist-friendly destination. `3.07.A05.05` | **“Marine Nights :Awakening Colombo” Project**:  `2025-05-26-004` | ⚪ 0.53
**Strategic destination marketing**:  A marketing campaign will be launched to attract Free Independent Travelers (FITs) and transit travellers passing through Colombo airport. `3.07.A05.06` | **“Marine Nights :Awakening Colombo” Project**:  `2025-05-26-004` | ⚪ 0.52
**Strategic destination marketing**:  Foreign missions and embassies will be used productively and efficiently for Sri Lanka’s destination marketing programs. `3.07.A05.08` | **“Marine Nights :Awakening Colombo” Project**:  `2025-05-26-004` | ⚪ 0.52
**National planning and state intervention**:  Create national industrial think tanks for all industrial sectors dedicated to strategic planning and foresight analysis. `3.08.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**National planning and state intervention**:  Enable targeted interventions in key industries, with a strong emphasis on sustainability and the distinct significance of each sector to the national economy and overall stability. `3.08.A01.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Micro, small, and medium-scale industries**:  Implement a collateral-free loan scheme of up to Rs. 10 million, contingent on feasibility and credit score, through the financial sector to provide crucial financial support to micro, small, and medium-scale entrepreneurs. `3.08.A05.02` | **Implementation of the Pledge Loan Scheme carried out previously for the purchase of paddy, as an Annual Programme from the Maha Season - 2024/25**:  `2024-12-30-005` | ⚪ 0.56
**Micro, small, and medium-scale industries**:  Construct an international oil transmission and cargo storage terminal in Trincomalee following the refurbishment of existing oil terminals. `3.08.A05.11` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.56
**Micro, small, and medium-scale industries**:  Modernize the Sapugaskanda Refinery to meet domestic demand and capture a significant share of the foreign market for refined oil and related products. `3.08.A05.12` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.61
**Interventions needed for sustainable development**:  Develop a strategic initiative aimed at ensuring environmental sustainability, addressing climate change challenges, and achieving the essential milestones for long-term resilience and skill development in the industrial sector. `3.08.A07.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Digitalisation and technical usage**:  Foster the adoption and integration of Industry 4.0 technologies among Sri Lankan industrial entrepreneurs, enhancing their capacity for digital transformation. `3.08.A08.04` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.54
**Gems and jewellery**:  Amendments needed for the Gem and Jewelry Authority Act, aiming for the sustainable development of the mining industry and gem industry. `3.09.A02.05` | **Amendment of Acts falling under the purview of the institutions under the Ministry of Industry and Entrepreneurship Development**:  `2025-04-28-005` | ⚪ 0.58
**Gems and jewellery**:  Establishing a ‘Gem Industry Workers Protection Authority’ to uplift the living standards of labourers engaged in the gem industry. `3.09.A02.10` | **Amendment of Acts falling under the purview of the institutions under the Ministry of Industry and Entrepreneurship Development**:  `2025-04-28-005` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Directing the currently oil-based electricity generation towards low-cost renewable solar and wind sources while implementing competitive procurement and price-calling to make Sri Lanka a country in the region with the lowest electricity bill. `3.10.A01.01` | **Securing Funds from the Asian Development Bank for the Power System Strengthening and Renewable Energy Integration Project**:  `2024-12-09-002` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Adding 2,000 MW gradually into the national supply using solar power `3.10.A01.04` | **Procurement of 152 MW electricity from Ground-mounted Solar PV Plants under International Competitive Bidding**:  `2025-04-28-012` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Introducing the developing SMR technology to Sri Lanka and entering MOUs with countries and institutions which are leaders in the field in order to develop the human and physical resources needed `3.10.A01.15` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.57
**NO-TITLE**:  Either upgrading / repairing the Sapugaskanda oil refinery or conducting feasibility studies to build a new refinery `3.10.A01.16` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.70
**NO-TITLE**:  Using refinery by-products as raw material for other industries and chemical productions, and making the refinery a specialized Training Centre for human resources for high skilled overseas job opportunities `3.10.A01.17` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  The agreements that have been entered into so far will be re-examined, and a business model will be formulated to make the twenty-four (24) tanks owned by the Petroleum Corporation and the sixty-one (61) tanks owned by partnering companies beneficial to the national economy `3.10.A01.18` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.60
**NO-TITLE**:  Modifying the currently broken-down pipe system between the Colombo harbour and Kolonnawa terminal as an investment of the CPTSL to separately unload and upload petroleum fuel products `3.10.A01.20` | **Developing and Expanding the Sapugaskanda Oil Refining Complex**:  `2025-02-09-004` | ⚪ 0.62
**NO-TITLE**:  Taking action to quickly enter excavation and new exploration agreements to extract fossil fuel including natural gas that has been identified through explorations so far at the Mannar and Kaveri basin `3.10.A01.21` | **Calling for investment proposals for exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas in four (04) blocks 	within the Mannar Basin and obtaining the service of a Marketing Consultant**:  `2025-05-07-007` | ⚪ 0.59
**NO-TITLE**:  Taking action to update the sections regarding weak and short-term environmental goals, as a mark of Sri Lanka’s commitment towards the UN conventions on climate change that aim towards zero emissions by 2050 `3.10.A01.23` | **Submission of the First Biennial Transparency Report of Sri Lanka to the 	United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change**:  `2024-12-30-004` | ⚪ 0.54
**NO-TITLE**:  Formulation and implementing a strategic plan to establish Sri Lanka as an `3.10.A01.32` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.56
**Railway service**:  Gradually introducing monorail and light railway transport to strengthen public transport in populated areas, whilst prioritising the programs to develop railway and bus services `3.11.A01.08` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.52
**Bus passenger service**:  Introducing buses manufactured specifically for passenger transport, and providing an easy financial scheme to procure such buses `3.11.A02.01` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.56
**Bus passenger service**:  A strong passenger bus service development by improving transport at night as well as on the main roads and the roads where passenger bus transport is at an unsatisfactory state `3.11.A02.02` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Bus passenger service**:  Formation of cluster bus companies using new digital technology, established by integrating state and private bus services for regions selected in a manner that income from buses is equitably distributed among the buses `3.11.A02.03` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Bus passenger service**:  Allocation of bus lanes in populated areas giving priority for public transport and gradually introduce Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system `3.11.A02.05` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.55
**Bus passenger service**:  Gradual introduction of electrically operated buses to the public transport service `3.11.A02.06` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.54
**Bus passenger service**:  Awareness creation and training among passengers and workers to instil a mindset change needed to create an environment where passengers can travel in buses with dignity without any harassment `3.11.A02.07` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.52
**Bus passenger service**:  Development of parking facilities near bus stands to park private vehicles used by passengers `3.11.A02.08` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.52
**Roads**:  Identification of rural and estate roads in need of immediate repair, preparation of a priority list, and the repairing and sustainable maintenance of the roads according to a prioritised program . `3.11.A06.01` | **Rehabilitation and Improvement of Rural Roads in the Northern and Eastern Provinces in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-02-09-007` | ⚪ 0.58
**Roads**:  Resolving the issues and the completion of construction of the presently stalled central expressway from Kadawatha to Meerigama. `3.11.A06.03` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.54
**Using water ways for goods and passenger transport**:  A technical unit to research and advise on promotion of waterway transportation `3.11.A09.01` | **Promoting tourism and passenger transportation activities using 	waterways under Public-Private Partnership**:  `2025-04-21-001` | ⚪ 0.55
**Using water ways for goods and passenger transport**:  Passenger and goods transportation services implementation in waterways identified through feasibility studies `3.11.A09.02` | **Promoting tourism and passenger transportation activities using 	waterways under Public-Private Partnership**:  `2025-04-21-001` | ⚪ 0.58
**Minimising road accidents**:  Systematising the process of issuing and renewing of driving licenses `3.11.A11.02` | **Issuance of a New Digital Driving License**:  `2024-12-09-008` | ⚪ 0.55
**Para-transit operations**:  Formalising taxi services including three-wheel service, staff transport, and school transport services to improve their quality and efficiency `3.11.A12.01` | **Establishment of a Metro Bus Unit for Urban Transportation**:  `2025-06-02-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Harbour infrastructure and other services**:  Expansion of the harbour, maintenance, data storage, production processes, national vessels, infrastructure, terminals, and implementations `3.12.A02.01` | **Development of the Myliddy Fishery Harbour - Phase III**:  `2025-06-02-011` | ⚪ 0.53
**(MARPOL) and other environmental protection laws**:  Enacting laws on nautical protection in Sri Lanka `3.12.A04.01` | **Enacting laws to give effect to the Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts relating to the International Civil Aviation (Beijing Convention, 2010), in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-02-24-004` | ⚪ 0.54
**Broadcasting industry**:  Turning broadcasting networks into digital, absorbing the latest technology and providing services related to the public `3.13.A06.01` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.54
**Broadcasting industry**:  A regulatory body for the transmission industry under the CRC-SL `3.13.A06.02` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.55
**Broadcasting industry**:  Integrating state-owned radio and television institutes into a consolidated single institute/company in a way that their identities are protected `3.13.A06.03` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.58
**Broadcasting industry**:  Operating the National Channel (CH-01) and Nethra Channel (CH-02) within the Public Services Broadcast (PSB) domains, while transitioning Channel EYE (CH-03) to the commercial domain. `3.13.A06.04` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.61
**Broadcasting industry**:  Implementing SLBC local service and Tamil service as PSB Domains, and maintaining other channels as commercial channels `3.13.A06.05` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.58
**Broadcasting industry**:  Allocating annual budget for mass communication in each ministry to the institutions maintained as PSB. `3.13.A06.06` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.62
**Broadcasting industry**:  Improving and promoting the necessary technical infrastructure to broadcast programs that include entertainment and education. `3.13.A06.07` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.59
**Broadcasting industry**:  Identifying the terrestrial TV network as the efficient medium for educational services and developing the required technical infrastructure. `3.13.A06.08` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.59
**Broadcasting industry**:  Acting competitively in the international outside broadcasting industry as an external broadcasting engineering institute which covers and transmits external broadcastings of international ceremonies and competitions which are connected to sports, entertainment, and tourist industry in this region. `3.13.A06.09` | **Improving and maintaining the broadcasting activities of the Independent Television Network**:  `2025-06-09-008` | ⚪ 0.52
**Land utilization**:  A new legal framework and land act that makes effective land administration and management `3.14.A01.01` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.61
**Land utilization**:  National landuse plan `3.14.A01.02` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.52
**Land utilization**:  A National Land Council to coordinate and oversee land management `3.14.A01.03` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.56
**Land utilization**:  A network of quasi-judicial institutes to resolve land-related issues quickly and fairly `3.14.A01.07` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Land utilization**:  Land usage and development permits will be made simple and efficient through scientific and technological methods `3.14.A01.08` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.54
**Land registration**:  Deeds to the people who have been living in state lands for a long period `3.14.A03.01` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.52
**Land registration**:  An efficient, transparent, and accountable land-related public service. `3.14.A03.03` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.54
**Land use management**:  Local development plans that align with the National landuse Planning policy `3.14.A04.03` | **Drafting of the Land Use Policy Planning Department Act**:  `2025-01-27-009` | ⚪ 0.53
**Act**:  Recommending the priority of main construction projects according to the national development plans `3.15.A02.05` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Act**:  Making environmental accountability essential for all construction projects, with a deep assessment of environmental risks   A dignified life A strong country `3.15.A02.18` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**NO-TITLE**:  Recognizing and enacting the rights mentioned in the International Covenant on `4.01.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Broadening the constitutional law about the rights of children, women, and people with disabilities according to international conventions `4.01.A02.01` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.53
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Abolishing the executive presidency and appointing a president, without executive powers, by the parliament `4.01.A02.03` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Introducing a new parliamentary electoral system `4.01.A02.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Abolishing the pensions and special privileges given to retired presidents and their families `4.01.A02.06` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.56
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Appointing 25 ministers and corresponding deputy ministers to 25 logically determined ministries and abolishing State Ministerial posts `4.01.A02.07` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.58
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  An advisory council consisting of specialists on the subject will be appointed to each ministry `4.01.A02.08` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.55
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Introducing a code of ethics, including not allowing members of parliament (MPs) and ministers to appoint their immediate family members to their personal staff `4.01.A02.09` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.54
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Abolishing allowances made to MPs for participating in parliamentary sessions `4.01.A02.10` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.56
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Abolishing the pension offered to MPs after 05 years `4.01.A02.11` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.55
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Preventing MPs or their close family members from directly or indirectly engaging in businesses or contracts with the government `4.01.A02.12` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.52
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Removing the tax-free vehicle permits for MPs `4.01.A02.13` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.55
**Civil and Political Rights as basic rights**:  Giving only one vehicle for Ministers /Deputy Ministers to be used during their period of office `4.01.A02.14` | **Revisiting the Entitlements, Allowances and Privileges of the Members of Parliament, Ministers and Former Presidents**:  `2024-09-30-002` | ⚪ 0.57
**NO-TITLE**:  Resolving issues in the service minutes and amending them `4.02.A01.01` | **Reviewing and simplifying the rules and regulations pertaining to the public service**:  `2025-02-03-004` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Preparing a necessary mechanism to address socio-economic issues and needs identified from the ground level, based on the national development programme `4.02.A01.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.60
**NO-TITLE**:  Identifying the subject fields of the state departments and institutions and directing them to new ministries on a logical basis, and building vertical and horizontal connections among these institutions to maintain high efficiency in achieving socio-economic goals `4.02.A01.03` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.59
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing new institutions as per the need, methodically integrating institutions with similar subject matter, and abolishing unnecessary institutes `4.02.A01.04` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Transforming the existing state management processes towards new state management systems taking into consideration the concepts of digitalization, performance management, and citizen involvement `4.02.A01.05` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Conducting an immediate census to identify information such as the skills and qualifications of workers to re-position them to achieve new socio-economic goals to increase the efficiency of the government service instead of the popular option of laying workers off `4.02.A01.06` | **Recruitment of 30,000 graduates and youths to fill in essential vacancies in the Public Service**:  `2025-04-07-014` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Introducing a performance management procedure to ensure that departments and their staff are achieving targets `4.02.A01.07` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing Divisional Secretariat offices as multi-service provision centers using digital technology. `4.02.A01.08` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Introducing a process to obtain public feedback to assess officers on providing the public service in an efficient, well-mannered, and corruption-free manner, preventing the waste of public money that occurs both actively and passively in the decision-making process `4.02.A01.09` | **Establishment of Investigation Units in Ministries to ensure the accountability of Public Institutions to the General Public**:  `2024-12-30-016` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Maintaining a state asset registry to manage state resources properly and efficiently `4.02.A01.10` | **Review on State-Owned Non-commercial Entities**:  `2024-12-18-002` | ⚪ 0.50
**NO-TITLE**:  Encouraging state institutions to prevent the wastage of state resources and introducing scales to measure that `4.02.A01.11` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Developing digital tools to improve the efficiency of internal activities of the governmental service, including procurement, financing, auditing, planning, and administration `4.02.A01.12` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Revising necessary rules and regulations for appointments and promotions of officers to all types of services in the government service within a particular time frame `4.02.A01.13` | **Reviewing and simplifying the rules and regulations pertaining to the public service**:  `2025-02-03-004` | ⚪ 0.62
**NO-TITLE**:  Increasing the capacity of SLIDA to support formulating state policies and develop the skills of officers in implementing the policies `4.02.A01.14` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.57
**Judicial Process**:  To introduce mechanisms to prioritize and expedite the disposal of cases related to sexual offences committed against minors and women and bring justice to the victims. `4.03.A01.09` | **Establishing a multi-sectoral mechanism with an integrated approach to protect children from abuse**:  `2025-05-26-006` | ⚪ 0.55
**Bribery and corruption**:  Establishment of a stolen public asset recovery agency with the technical and advisory support of international organizations such as Stolen Asset Recovery (STAR) and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to recover the stolen state assets. `4.03.A02.01` | **Regulations under the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023**:  `2025-04-21-007` | ⚪ 0.51
**Bribery and corruption**:  Facilitate the Director General of the Bribery Commission with necessary authority to give effect to the International Convention on the Prevention of Corruption and Coordinating the Recovery of Stolen Assets. `4.03.A02.02` | **Regulations under the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023**:  `2025-04-21-007` | ⚪ 0.57
**Bribery and corruption**:  Appointment of a permanent bench of three Judges of the High Court to streamline cases of financial crimes, bribery, and corruption. `4.03.A02.03` | **Amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023**:  `2024-12-30-015` | ⚪ 0.53
**Bribery and corruption**:  Establishment of Anti-Corruption Commission office in every district. `4.03.A02.04` | **National Anti-Corruption Action Plan 2025 - 2029**:  `2025-03-24-001` | ⚪ 0.55
**Bribery and corruption**:  Investigate complaints received by the Anti-Corruption Commission within six (06) months or submit a report to Parliament every six (06) months on complaints that are not dealt with. `4.03.A02.05` | **Amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023**:  `2024-12-30-015` | ⚪ 0.58
**Bribery and corruption**:  Establishment of a government-sponsored awareness campaign among the public about corruption, fraud and bribery and to empower the public against them. `4.03.A02.08` | **National Anti-Corruption Action Plan 2025 - 2029**:  `2025-03-24-001` | ⚪ 0.53
**Bribery and corruption**:  Re-visiting the cases withdrawn by the Bribery Commission and the Attorney General and resubmit appropriate cases. `4.03.A02.09` | **Amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023**:  `2024-12-30-015` | ⚪ 0.56
**Attorney General’s Department**:  Introducing a Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) as a mechanism to eliminate delays within the judicial system and establishing a main DPP office and sub offices in the provinces which will remain independent of the Attorney General’s Department to conduct cases on behalf of the government. `4.03.A03.01` | **Establishment of the Office of Public Prosecutor**:  `2025-05-07-002` | ⚪ 0.64
**Attorney General’s Department**:  Inform the complainants/aggrieved parties about the reasons, in the event the Attorney General’s Department decides not to prosecute after the investigation process. `4.03.A03.03` | **Establishment of Investigation Units in Ministries to ensure the accountability of Public Institutions to the General Public**:  `2024-12-30-016` | ⚪ 0.51
**Attorney General’s Department**:  Appointing a special Parliamentary Ombudsman to address the grievances of the aggrieved party regarding the activities of the Attorney General’s Department. `4.03.A03.04` | **Establishment of the Office of Public Prosecutor**:  `2025-05-07-002` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Empower the Police Commission to make all appointments, promotions, and transfers in the police service without politicization `4.04.A01.07` | **Reviewing the Recruitment Process and Cadre Management in the Public Service**:  `2024-12-30-013` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Promotions from Sergeant of Police to Assistant Superintendent of Police to be done based solely on merit and performance without politicization `4.04.A01.09` | **Reviewing the Recruitment Process and Cadre Management in the Public Service**:  `2024-12-30-013` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Raising the salaries and allowances of the police service in proportion to other public servants `4.04.A01.13` | **Revision of Salaries of the Public Service - 2025**:  `2025-03-24-011` | ⚪ 0.56
**NO-TITLE**:  Strengthening the Special Investigation Unit for a police service free of bribery, corruption and fraud `4.04.A01.14` | **Establishment of Investigation Units in Ministries to ensure the accountability of Public Institutions to the General Public**:  `2024-12-30-016` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Regularize rehabilitation programmes for drug addicts to free them from drug use `4.06.A01.04` | **Construction of a new residential building at the Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre for young people with drug addiction**:  `2025-06-09-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Expanding the functions of the Dangerous Drugs Control Board, and establishing monitoring committees to involve people in the fight against drugs `4.06.A01.07` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**The role and functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs**:  Development of Clear Guidelines: Formulating a comprehensive foreign policy document outlining strategic priorities, goals, and expected conduct of Sri Lanka’s representatives abroad. This document shall undergo periodic review to adapt to evolving global dynamics. `4.07.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**The role and functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs**:  Internal restructuring the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to meet with new foreign policy objectives after comprehensive analysis. `4.07.A01.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**The role and functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs**:  Evaluating the economically developing, emerging countries and areas where Sri Lanka should open its missions which can strengthen the country’s economic capacity `4.07.A01.04` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.52
**Diplomatic Missions**:  Rationalization of Sri Lanka Overseas Missions and Right Sizing of Missions. `4.07.A02.01` | **Cancellation of Appointments made on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers**:  `2024-10-07-007` | ⚪ 0.53
**Diplomatic Missions**:  Appointing professional career diplomats, with a proven track record, to head Sri Lanka’s Missions. Appointing qualified officers for Foreign Service on merit basis with professional excellence, the highest standards of ethical conduct, and diplomatic discretion. `4.07.A02.03` | **Appointment to the Post of Director of the Department of Cultural      Affairs**:  `2025-04-01-008` | ⚪ 0.54
**Institutional Reforms:**:  Decentralization of Diplomatic Initiatives: Empower Embassies to take the initiative in line with the overall foreign policy framework of Sri Lanka while ensuring accountability through regular oversight. `4.07.A03.01` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**Institutional Reforms:**:  Streamlined Processes: Simplify and streamline diplomatic processes to make them more efficient and responsive to the needs of the citizen and the State. `4.07.A03.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Institutional Reforms:**:  Creation of data bases of human resources (of all categories) and physical assets. `4.07.A03.03` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Institutional Reforms:**:  Restructuring and strengthening of the Diplomatic Training Institute and the Lakshman Kadirgamar Institute of International Relations and Strategic Studies (LKI). `4.07.A03.04` | **Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Bandaranaike International Diplomatic Training Institute of Sri Lanka and the Diplomatic Academy of Viet Nam "**:  `2025-04-28-009` | ⚪ 0.54
**Strengthening Centralized Oversight and Coordination:**:  Centralized Monitoring and Evaluation: Establish a robust mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the performance of Sri Lankan diplomats. Regular reviews should be conducted to assess the alignment of their actions with national foreign policy objectives. `4.07.A06.01` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Political Diplomacy**:  Exploring new opportunities and new global and regional platforms which can assist to achieve national interests of Sri Lanka, especially in economic sphere. `4.07.A08.05` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.54
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Interacting with foreign partners to bring in Foreign Direct Investments (FDI), financial assistance, and technology transfer for schemes and programmes. Attempting to diversify sources of FDI. `4.07.A09.02` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Analyzing and promoting Sri Lankan trade, tourism, and investment, as the country aims to become a hub of the Indian Ocean, it seeks synergies with international partners and friends as it moves towards shared aspirations. `4.07.A09.03` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.55
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Opening up the domestic market within the National Economic Framework pursuing positive economic management and expanding economic cooperation with other countries. `4.07.A09.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Full priority s hall be given to promote and strengthen the Diplomatic, economic and cultural relations with G20 countries, BRICS+ countries, ASEAN, Middle East and African Continent. `4.07.A09.05` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Modern and comprehensive investment law shall be enacted to improve the business environment for the foreign and local private sector, including, streamlining business procedures, investing in infrastructure, improving access to finance for Small and medium-sized enterprises - SMEs, and raising skilled and quality of human resources. `4.07.A09.06` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.57
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Improving access to other markets through new trade agreements and linking Sri Lanka to global production networks to increase exports. `4.07.A09.07` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.55
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Developing Sri Lanka as a critical service provider to international trade. Bilateral and multilateral trade agreements with main trade partners to promote the Sri Lankan economy. Remaining trade agreements will be analysed and upgraded according to achieve the stipulated targets with the consent of the other signing partners. `4.07.A09.08` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.59
**Economic Diplomacy**:  Renewable Energy Diplomacy; Positioning Sri Lanka as a leader in renewable energy by promoting international partnerships and investments in sus tainable energy projects. Participating in global renewable energy initiatives and sharing best practices. `4.07.A09.09` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.54
**National Security**:  Never allow the deployment of any military force into Sri Lanka intended to perform any activities whatsoever. `4.07.A10.02` | **UK Sanctions on four Sri Lankans**:  `2025-04-01-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**National Security**:  Attract and manage foreign investments without hindering Sri Lanka’s national security and economic interests. `4.07.A10.05` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.54
**Cultural Diplomacy**:  Establishing Sri Lanka Directorate of Cultural Relations under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. `4.07.A12.01` | **Appointment to the Post of Director of the Department of Cultural      Affairs**:  `2025-04-01-008` | ⚪ 0.60
**Cultural Diplomacy**:  Enhancing cultural exchanges and promoting Sri Lankan culture abroad to build soft power and foster mutual understanding. This includes establishing cultural centers, supporting Sri Lankan artists and performers in international platforms, and participating in global cultural events. `4.07.A12.02` | **Ratification of UNESCO (2005) Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions by Sri Lanka**:  `2025-03-03-008` | ⚪ 0.51
**Cultural Diplomacy**:  Recognizing proper mutual understanding between the peoples of Sri Lanka and other nations is an essential prerequisite for conducting diplomacy. Strengthening international cultural exchanges contributes to building international relations of peace and stability by heightening mutual understanding among nations and creating a more decadent cultural climate. `4.07.A12.03` | **Ratification of UNESCO (2005) Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions by Sri Lanka**:  `2025-03-03-008` | ⚪ 0.52
**Cultural Diplomacy**:  Initiating specific cultural weeks/month with countries in where considerable Sri Lankan diaspora presence and countries where we get considerable inflow of tourists. `4.07.A12.05` | **Ratification of UNESCO (2005) Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions by Sri Lanka**:  `2025-03-03-008` | ⚪ 0.52
**Science and Technology Diplomacy**:  Attracting global scientific community with the direct involvement of prominent Sri Lankan scientists to establish laborites, research centers, and exhibitions in Sri Lanka with regional and global significance. `4.07.A13.02` | **Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Bandaranaike International Diplomatic Training Institute of Sri Lanka and the Diplomatic Academy of Viet Nam "**:  `2025-04-28-009` | ⚪ 0.52
**Science and Technology Diplomacy**:  Encouraging multinational IT companies to invest in Sri Lanka to leverage it as the Digital Gateway to Asia. Appoint dedicated representatives to multilateral agencies like UNESCAP . `4.07.A13.05` | **Establishment of Institutional Framework for acceleration of digital transformation and digital economy development in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-05-26-002` | ⚪ 0.54
**Parliamentary Diplomacy**:  Parliamentary diplomacy shall be strengthened as a top priority area due its global recognition, established institutional structures, multi-party representation and frequent opportunities it enjoys. Ministry of Foreign Affairs will support the Sri Lankan Parliament to establish Parliamentary friendship societies, joint programmes with other Parliaments and speaker level, Members of Parliament level and staff level programmes will be encouraged. `4.07.A14.01` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.54
**Parliamentary Diplomacy**:  Ministry of Foreign Affairs will facilitate the Sri Lankan Parliament to use all regional and global Parliamentary forums to extract the best possible results for the country. `4.07.A14.02` | **57th Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council**:  `2024-10-07-002` | ⚪ 0.53
**Public Diplomacy**:  Ministry of Foreign Affairs will appreciate Sri Lankan diplomats, academia, security experts and experts on various fields who are ready to strengthen and promote think tanks and platforms which study and engage with regional and global political and economic developments. Ministry of Foreign Affairs will keep continuous constructive dialogue with those organizations. `4.07.A15.02` | **Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Bandaranaike International Diplomatic Training Institute of Sri Lanka and the Diplomatic Academy of Viet Nam "**:  `2025-04-28-009` | ⚪ 0.56
**Public Diplomacy**:  Prominent Sri Lankan individuals with par excellence in their fields shall be employed as Brand Ambassadors or Special Envoys to promote Public Diplomacy when necessary. `4.07.A15.04` | **UK Sanctions on four Sri Lankans**:  `2025-04-01-010` | ⚪ 0.50
**Humanitarian Diplomacy**:  Enhancing Sri Lanka’s role in global humanitarian efforts by participating in international aid programs and disaster relief missions. Building capacity within Sri Lanka for rapid response to humanitarian crises both domestically and internationally. `4.07.A16.01` | **57th Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council**:  `2024-10-07-002` | ⚪ 0.52
**Legal Reforms**:  Reforming dual citizenship laws and immigration laws to facilitate the economic contributions of overseas Sri Lankans. `4.07.A17.01` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**Diaspora engagement**:  Foreign Employment Bureau will be attached to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a better coordination, efficient use of available human and financial resources for the purpose of providing better welfare of the Sri Lankan employees in foreign countries. `4.07.A18.01` | **Cancellation of Appointments made on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers**:  `2024-10-07-007` | ⚪ 0.51
**Diaspora engagement**:  Entrepreneur Promotion Unit shall be established within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to facilitate capable Sri Lankan entrepreneurs living in foreign countries along with the possibilities of financial facilities as well. `4.07.A18.04` | **Proposed Agreement on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates**:  `2025-02-09-002` | ⚪ 0.50
**Diaspora engagement**:  Establishing a Consultative body with the Sri Lankan diaspora in every country where a considerable number of Sri Lankans is present. This Consultative body will be mandated to engage with the Sri Lankan foreign mission in a permanent and routine manner with the respective foreign mission as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to continuously upgrade the services for the Sri Lankan diaspora. Encouraging entering active domestic social and economic spheres in their countries of residence. `4.07.A18.05` | **ASEAN Sectoral Dialogue Partnership (SDP)**:  `2025-03-24-002` | ⚪ 0.51
**Diaspora engagement**:  Appointing NRSLs as Honorary Consuls to further Sri Lankan interests abroad. `4.07.A18.06` | **UK Sanctions on four Sri Lankans**:  `2025-04-01-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**Diaspora engagement**:  Facilitate the possibility of foreign employed Sri Lankan citizens to invest in Sri `4.07.A18.08` | **Proposed Agreement on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments between Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates**:  `2025-02-09-002` | ⚪ 0.53
**Lanka including on the bonds for development projects Current Foreign Policy Stances**:  We shall not allow any country or institution to use Sri Lanka’s land, Sea and Air spaces to threaten or risk the national security any country in the region including India. `4.07.A19.01` | **The Government of Sri Lanka continuing to follow the “One China Policy”**:  `2025-01-06-012` | ⚪ 0.52
**Lanka including on the bonds for development projects Current Foreign Policy Stances**:  We shall support to the UN adopted Two state solution to establish a Free Sovereign Palestinian State. `4.07.A19.02` | **The Government of Sri Lanka continuing to follow the “One China Policy”**:  `2025-01-06-012` | ⚪ 0.51
**Lanka including on the bonds for development projects Current Foreign Policy Stances**:  We shall follow and implement to eliminate the threat of Terrorism, separatism and Extremism. `4.07.A19.03` | **UK Sanctions on four Sri Lankans**:  `2025-04-01-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**Lanka including on the bonds for development projects Current Foreign Policy Stances**:  As a firm policy, Sri Lanka shall oppose foreign military bases and similar military agreements and militarizing initiatives in the Indian Ocean. `4.07.A19.04` | **The Government of Sri Lanka continuing to follow the “One China Policy”**:  `2025-01-06-012` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Adopting good governance initiatives that can maintain harmony and coexistence among ethnicities while protecting democracy, citizen rights, and human rights on the rule of law. `4.08.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Strengthening and streamlining the National Security Council, ensuring responsibility and accountability for national security. `4.08.A01.04` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishment of a National Security Advisory Board consisting of experts in relevant fields of national security. `4.08.A01.05` | **Establishment of the Food Policy and Security Committee**:  `2024-12-09-001` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Restoration of the Sri Lanka defense forces under competent leadership as professional forces with developed and technological knowledge, and proper training with knowledge and capabilities relevant to national security. `4.08.A01.06` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Streamline the procedures followed for appointment and promotion to higher posts, and selection for special and foreign training in the armed forces, with accepted military procedures and based solely on merit, professional skills, and unblemished professional history. `4.08.A01.07` | **Identification and resolving of existing issues regarding Development Officers, Officers of Allied Service Categories, and Officers already in various Posts in the Public Service with a degree although the degree is not considered as a basic qualification for entry into the Public Service, and graduates expecting to join the Public Service**:  `2024-12-02-007` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing a trustworthy and efficient integrated intelligence mechanism along with a proper procedure that certifies the responsibility and accountability in fulfilling duties for the country’s future prosperity, wellbeing, social security, and public security to achieve the national security aims and good governance. `4.08.A01.11` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Creating a strategic security environment and permanent foundation for economic stability. `4.08.A01.14` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing a mechanism that is accountable and responsible for the consumption and conservation of national and strategic resources towards the protection of national security. `4.08.A01.16` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing a mechanism to ensure and formalize that all investigations take place independently and apolitically to ensure national protection by using modern methods sufficient to prevent any crime that takes place against the citizenry, where Sri Lanka Police receives professionalism, pride, and respect. `4.08.A01.21` | **Establishment of Investigation Units in Ministries to ensure the accountability of Public Institutions to the General Public**:  `2024-12-30-016` | ⚪ 0.57
**NO-TITLE**:  Integrating and formalizing the search and rescue region and flight information region (FIR) in Sri Lanka Air Force, to protect the air space within the maritime control region. `4.08.A01.23` | **Introducing an effective legal framework for Countering Foreign 	Terrorist Fighters**:  `2025-05-26-011` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Introduce a new constitution that strengthens democracy and ensures equality of all citizens. This initiative will build on the constitutional reform process started in 2015 which remains incomplete. The proposed constitutional reforms will guarantee equality and democracy and the devolution of political and administrative power to every local government, district and province so that all people can be involved in governance within one country. `4.09.A01.01` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Provincial councils and local government elections, which are currently postponed indefinitely, will be held within a year to provide an opportunity for the people to join the governance. `4.09.A01.02` | **Making provisions for recalling nominations and for calling fresh nominations for the Local Authorities Election which was due to be held in the year 2023**:  `2024-12-02-008` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  A Commission Against Discrimination, with a legal mandate will be established. `4.09.A01.03` | **57th Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council**:  `2024-10-07-002` | ⚪ 0.50
**NO-TITLE**:  Expanding the work of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate acts of violence caused by racism and religious extremism `4.09.A01.05` | **57th Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council**:  `2024-10-07-002` | ⚪ 0.50
**NO-TITLE**:  Establishing an Inter-Religious Council consisting of all religious leaders and religious scholars to resolve inter-religious issues. `4.09.A01.06` | **57th Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council**:  `2024-10-07-002` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Implementing programmes for comparative study of world religions `4.09.A01.07` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Organization of cultural programs and activities for national and religious unity at national, provincial and district level. `4.09.A01.08` | **Implementation of the 'Clean Sri Lanka' Programme**:  `2024-12-02-010` | ⚪ 0.53
**NO-TITLE**:  Abolition of all oppressive acts including the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) and ensuring civil rights of people in all parts of the country `4.09.A01.10` | **Enacting laws to give effect to the Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts relating to the International Civil Aviation (Beijing Convention, 2010), in Sri Lanka**:  `2025-02-24-004` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Regularization of civil administration in a way that the civil rights of the people in all parts of the country including the North and East are guaranteed. `4.09.A01.11` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Providing relief to war widows, internally displaced persons, people with disabilities and people with trauma in need of relief and shelter. `4.09.A01.13` | **Providing relief to the people affected by the earthquake in Myanmar**:  `2025-04-01-011` | ⚪ 0.56
**NO-TITLE**:  Settlement of existing land related issues by a National Commission on Lands and Settlements. `4.09.A01.14` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  Implementation of the National Language Policy recognized under the 16th Amendment of the Constitution by providing necessary resources and technical facilities. `4.09.A01.16` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.54
**NO-TITLE**:  Taking steps to develop facilities such as land, housing, education, and health of the upcountry Tamil community by recognizing their identity and rights, as mentioned in the Haton Declaration made on 2023.10.15 by the National People’s Power `4.09.A01.17` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.55
**NO-TITLE**:  Increase the salaries of the upcountry plantation workers compared to the cost of living. `4.09.A01.18` | **Providing relief to pensioners, paddy farmers and fishermen**:  `2024-10-14-014` | ⚪ 0.52
**NO-TITLE**:  Providing officials, employees and translators who can work in Tamil to civil services such as police stations and government offices in the Northern and Eastern provinces and Upcountry areas. `4.09.A01.19` | **Appointment to the Post of Commissioner General of Official Languages**:  `2025-04-28-008` | ⚪ 0.51
**NO-TITLE**:  To diplomatically solve the challenges posed by foreign fishermen to fishing activities in the North and East and other areas and make room for the necessary infrastructure and marketing facilities. `4.09.A01.20` | **Acceptance of the Manifesto 'A Thriving Nation - A Beautiful Life ' as the National Policy Framework of the Government**:  `2025-03-03-010` | ⚪ 0.54
